  First, thanks to associates who have worked with me to give seminars, provide consulting, and develop teaching projects: Dave Bartlett, Bill Venners, Chuck Allison, Jeremy Meyer, and Jamie King. I appreciate your patience as I continue to try to develop the best model for independent folks like us to work together. 
  Recently, no doubt because of the Internet, I have become associated with a surprisingly large number of people who assist me in my endeavors, usually working from their own home offices. In the past, I would have had to pay for a pretty big office space to accommodate all these folks, but because of the Net, FedEx, and the telephone, I’m able to benefit from their help without the extra costs. In my attempts to learn to “play well with  others,” you have all been very helpful, and I hope to continue learning how to make my own work better through the efforts of others. Paula Steuer has been invaluable in taking over my haphazard business practices and making them sane (thanks for prodding me when I don’t want to do something, Paula). Jonathan Wilcox, Esq., has sifted through my corporate structure and turned over every possible rock that might hide scorpions, and frog-marched us through the process of putting everything straight, legally. Thanks for your care and persistence. Sharlynn Cobaugh has made herself an expert in sound processing and an essential part of creating the multimedia training experiences, as well as tackling other problems. Thanks for your perseverance when faced with intractable computer problems. The folks at Amaio in Prague have helped me out with several projects. Daniel Will-Harris was the original work-by-Internet inspiration, and he is of course fundamental to all my graphic design solutions. 
  Over the years, through his conferences and workshops, Gerald Weinberg has become my unofficial coach and mentor, for which I thank him. 
  Ervin Varga was exceptionally helpful with technical corrections on the 4th edition—although other people helped on various chapters and examples, Ervin was my primary technical reviewer for the book, and he also took on the task of rewriting the solution guide for the 4th edition. Ervin found errors and made improvements to the book that were invaluable additions to this text. His thoroughness and attention to detail are amazing, and he’s far and away the best technical reader I’ve ever had. Thanks, Ervin. 
  My weblog on Bill Venners’ www.Artima.com has been a source of assistance when I’ve needed to bounce ideas around. Thanks to the readers that have helped me clarify concepts by submitting comments, including James Watson, Howard Lovatt, Michael Barker, and others, in particular those who helped with generics. 
  Thanks to Mark Welsh for his continuing assistance. 
  Evan Cofsky continues to be very supportive by knowing off the top of his head all the arcane details of setting up and maintaining Linux-based Web servers, and keeping the MindView server tuned and secure. 
  A special thanks to my new friend, coffee, who generated nearly boundless enthusiasm for this project. Camp4 Coffee in Crested Butte, Colorado, has become the standard hangout when people have come up to take MindView seminars, and during seminar breaks it is the best catering I’ve ever had. Thanks to my buddy Al Smith for creating it and making it such a great place, and for being such an interesting and entertaining part of the Crested Butte experience. And to all the Camp4 barristas who so cheerfully dole out beverages. 
  Thanks to the folks at Prentice Hall for continuing to give me what I want, putting up with all my special requirements, and for going out of their way to make things run smoothly for me. 
  Certain tools have proved invaluable during my development process and I am very grateful to the creators every time I use these. Cygwin (www.cygwin.com) has solved innumerable problems for me that Windows can’t/won’t and I become more attached to it each day (if I only had this 15 years ago when my brain was still hard-wired with Gnu Emacs). IBM’s Eclipse (www.eclipse.org) is a truly wonderful contribution to the development community, and I expect  to see great things from it as it continues to evolve (how did IBM become hip? I must have missed a memo). JetBrains IntelliJ Idea continues to forge creative new paths in development tools. 
  I began using Enterprise Architect from Sparxsystems on this book, and it has rapidly become my UML tool of choice. Marco Hunsicker’s Jalopy code formatter (www.triemax.com) came in handy on numerous occasions, and Marco was very helpful in  configuring it to my particular needs. I’ve also found Slava Pestov’s JEdit and plug-ins to be helpful at times (www.jedit.org) and it’s quite a reasonable beginner’s editor for seminars. 
  And of course, if I don’t say it enough everywhere else, I use Python (www.Python.org) constantly to solve problems, the brainchild of my buddy Guido Van Rossum and the gang of goofy geniuses with whom I spent a few great days sprinting (Tim Peters, I’ve now framed that mouse you borrowed, officially named the “TimBotMouse”). You guys need to find healthier places to eat lunch. (Also, thanks to the entire Python community, an amazing bunch of people.)  Lots of people sent in corrections and I am indebted to them all, but particular thanks go to (for the 1st edition): Kevin Raulerson (found tons of great bugs), Bob Resendes (simply incredible), John Pinto, Joe Dante, Joe Sharp (all three were fabulous), David Combs (many grammar and clarification corrections), Dr. Robert Stephenson, John Cook, Franklin Chen, Zev Griner, David Karr, Leander A. Stroschein, Steve Clark, Charles A. Lee, Austin Maher, Dennis P. Roth, Roque Oliveira, Douglas Dunn, Dejan Ristic, Neil Galarneau, David B. Malkovsky, Steve Wilkinson, and a host of others. Prof. Ir. Marc Meurrens put in a great deal of effort to publicize and make the electronic version of the 1st edition of the book available in Europe. 
  Thanks to those who helped me rewrite the examples to use the Swing library (for the 2nd edition), and for other assistance: Jon Shvarts, Thomas Kirsch, Rahim Adatia, Rajesh Jain, Ravi Manthena, Banu Rajamani, Jens Brandt, Nitin Shivaram, Malcolm Davis, and everyone who expressed support. 
  In the 4th edition, Chris Grindstaff was very helpful during the development of the SWT section, and Sean Neville wrote the first draft of the Flex section for me. 
  Kraig Brockschmidt and Gen Kiyooka have been some of the smart technical people in my life who have become friends and have also been both influential and unusual in that they do yoga and practice other forms of spiritual enhancement, which I find quite inspirational and instructional. 
  It’s not that much of a surprise to me that understanding Delphi helped me understand Java, since there are many concepts and language design decisions in common. My Delphi friends provided assistance by helping me gain insight into that marvelous programming environment. They are Marco Cantu (another Italian—perhaps being steeped in Latin gives one aptitude for programming languages?), Neil Rubenking (who used to do the yoga/vegetarian/Zen thing until he discovered computers), and of course Zack Urlocker (the original Delphi product manager), a long-time pal whom I’ve traveled the world with. We’re all indebted to the brilliance of Anders Hejlsberg, who continues to toil away at C# (which, as you’ll learn in this book, was a major inspiration for Java SE5). 
  My friend Richard Hale Shaw’s insights and support have been very helpful (and Kim’s, too). Richard and I spent many months giving seminars together and trying to work out the perfect learning experience for the attendees. 
  The book design, cover design, and cover photo were created by my friend Daniel Will- Harris, noted author and designer (www.Will-Harris.com), who used to play with rub-on letters in  junior high school while he awaited the invention of computers and desktop publishing, and complained of me mumbling over my algebra problems. However, I produced the camera- ready pages myself, so the typesetting errors are mine. Microsoft® Word XP for Windows was used to write the book and to create camera-ready pages in Adobe Acrobat; the book was created directly from the Acrobat PDF files. As a tribute to the electronic age, I happened to be overseas when I produced the final versions of the 1st and 2nd editions of the book—the 1st edition was sent from Cape Town, South Africa, and the 2nd edition was posted from Prague. 
  The 3rd and 4th came from Crested Butte, Colorado. The body typeface is Georgia and the headlines are in Verdana. The cover typeface is ITC Rennie Mackintosh. 
  A special thanks to all my teachers and all my students (who are my teachers as well). 
  Molly the cat often sat in my lap while I worked on this edition, and thus offered her own kind of warm, furry support. 
  The supporting cast of friends includes, but is not limited to: Patty Gast (Masseuse extraordinaire), Andrew Binstock, Steve Sinofsky, JD Hildebrandt, Tom Keffer, Brian McElhinney, Brinkley Barr, Bill Gates at Midnight Engineering Magazine, Larry Constantine and Lucy Lockwood, Gene Wang, Dave Mayer, David Intersimone, Chris and Laura Strand, the Almquists, Brad Jerbic, Marilyn Cvitanic, Mark Mabry, the Robbins families, the Moelter families (and the McMillans), Michael Wilk, Dave Stoner, the Cranstons, Larry Fogg, Mike Sequeira, Gary Entsminger, Kevin and Sonda Donovan, Joe Lordi, Dave and Brenda Bartlett, Patti Gast, Blake, Annette & Jade, the Rentschlers, the Sudeks, Dick, Patty, and Lee Eckel, Lynn and Todd, and their families. And of course, Mom and Dad. 
