  Although the Swing library is the GUI sanctioned by Sun, it is by no means the only way to create graphical user interfaces. Two important alternatives are Macromedia Flash, using Macromedia’s Flex programming system, for client-side GUIs over the Web, and the open- source Eclipse Standard Widget Toolkit (SWT) library for desktop applications. 
  Why would you consider alternatives? For Web clients, you can make a fairly strong argument that applets have failed. Considering how long they’ve been around (since the beginning) and the initial hype and promise around applets, coming across a Web application that uses applets is still a surprise. Even Sun doesn’t use applets everywhere. Here’s an example: 
  http://java.sun.c0m/developer/onlineTraining/new2java/javamap/intro.html  An interactive map of Java features on the Sun site seems a very likely candidate for a Java applet, and yet they did it in Flash. This appears to be a tacit acknowledgement that applets have not been a success. More importantly, the Flash Player is installed on upwards of 98 percent of computing platforms, so it can be considered an accepted standard. As you’ll see, the Flex system provides a very powerful client-side programming environment, certainly more powerful than JavaScript and with a look and feel that is often preferable to an applet. If you want to use applets, you must still convince the client to download the JRE, whereas the Flash Player is small and fast to download by comparison. 
  For desktop applications, one problem with Swing is that users notice that they are using a different kind of application, because the look and feel of Swing applications is different from the normal desktop. Users are not generally interested in new looks and feels in an application; they are trying to get work done and prefer that an application look and feel like all their other applications. SWT creates applications that look like native applications, and because the library uses native components as much as possible, the applications tend to run faster than equivalent Swing applications. 
