  All the source code for this book is available as copyrighted freeware, distributed as a single package, by visiting the Web site www.MindView.net. To make sure that you get the most current version, this is the official code distribution site. You may distribute the code in classroom and other educational situations. 
  The primary goal of the copyright is to ensure that the source of the code is properly cited, and to prevent you from republishing the code in print media without permission. (As long as the source is cited, using examples from the book in most media is generally not a problem.)  In each source-code file you will find a reference to the following copyright notice: 
  You may use the code in your projects and in the classroom (including your presentation materials) as long as the copyright notice that appears in each source file is retained. 
  
Coding standards
  In the text of this book, identifiers (methods, variables, and class names) are set in bold. Most keywords are also set in bold, except for those keywords that are used so much that the bolding can become tedious, such as “class.” 
  I use a particular coding style for the examples in this book. As much as possible, this follows the style that Sun itself uses in virtually all of the code you will find at its site (see http://java.sun.com/docs/codeconv/index.html), and seems to be supported by most Java development environments. If you’ve read my other works, you’ll also notice that Sun’s coding style coincides with mine—this pleases me, although I had nothing (that I know of) to do with it. The subject of formatting style is good for hours of hot debate, so I’ll just say I’m not trying to dictate correct style via my examples; I have my own motivation for using the style that I do. Because Java is a free-form programming language, you can continue to use whatever style you’re comfortable with. One solution to the coding style issue is to use a tool like Jalopy (www.triemax.com), which assisted me in developing this book, to change formatting to that which suits you. 
  The code files printed in the book are tested with an automated system, and should all work without compiler errors. 
  This book focuses on and is tested with Java SE5/6. If you need to learn about earlier releases of the language that are not covered in this edition, the 1st through 3rd editions of the book are freely downloadable at www.MindView.net. 
